## About
Monochrome is a minimal, responsive, ready to use Jekyll theme for blogging. [Demo](https://dyutibarma.github.io/monochrome/)
(Built on top of Emerald Jekyll theme)

## Tips
```
bundle install
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

## Install/Setup Jekyll

(Skip if you already have Jekyll 2.2)

1. Make sure Ruby 2.2 is installed 
```
sudo apt-get install ruby2.2
sudo apt-get install ruby2.2-dev
```
2. Install bundle: `sudo gem install bundler`
3. Install jekyll: `sudo gem install jekyll`

### Resources

- We found the jekyll tutorials on youtube very quick and useful to get started
- [Jekyll documentation](http://jekyllrb.com)   


## Install Monochrome dependencies

```
sudo gem install jekyll-paginate
sudo gem install jekyll-sitemap

```

## Customization Options

You can customize this layout using instructions below. 

### Header/Footer/Navigation

Set a custom header tag by setting the related option in the ``_config.yml`` file to "true". Then insert your custom code into the ``header-custom.html`` file.
In the same way, you can customize the footer of the navigation menu, by setting to "true" the related option and put your code into the ``nav-footer-custom.html`` file.
Moreover select a reverse option that allows to move the navigation menu to the left side, by setting it to "true".

### Colors

The basic colors are set into the ``base.scss`` file:
- $background-color: used for background and links in the navigation menu
- $text-color: used for text and title in posts and pages 
- $text-light-color: used for text lighter than text-color
- $text-dark-color: used for text darker than text-color

To customize the colors, just set the values in HEX, RGB (or RGBa) or any other format accepted by CSS.

### Navigation menu

The links inside the navigation menu are autogenerated from pages having the layout set to ``page``.
You can set custom links, by putting in the ``<a>`` tag into the ``link.html`` file.

### Branch
There are two branches: 
- ``master``: is for development.
- ``gh-pages``: is only for demo site.

### Typography

To maintain the vertical rhythm, it has been applied a **Typographic scale** as a modular scale, with a baseline set to 24px. To maintain this rhythm you need to insert elements like image, video or other contents with a 24px (or multiple) height as refer.

## Resources

- We found the jekyll tutorials on youtube very quick and useful to get started
- [Jekyll documentation](http://jekyllrb.com)

## Todo

- Google Analytics integration
- Footer to stick to bottom even when content is less

## Based on
https://github.com/dyutibarma/monochrome.git

## License
Released under [MIT License](license.md).
